---
layout: page
title: 17
date: 2024-01-25 01:53:42
---

[Back](./)


In the late 19th century, American cyclists played a significant role in politics and had the power to decide local and national elections. The League of American Wheelmen, a cycling organization, was influential in the Federal government and its members were well-connected with politicians. The cyclists used their voting power and organized parades and campaigns to demand better roads in their cities. In San Francisco, a torchlit parade attracted 5,000 cyclists and over 100,000 spectators, demonstrating the cyclists' influence in determining future municipal administration. The parade was part of a political campaign to improve the city's roads, and within months, Market Street was repaved. The success of the campaign was due to the political support the League of American Wheelmen had, with the organizing committee consisting of politicians, including the Mayor and Congressmen. Cyclists' influence extended beyond San Francisco. The League of American Wheelmen was politically active and urged cyclists to vote only for politicians in favor of Good Roads. They would work hard to elect those in favor and defeat those opposed. Chicago had a bicycle-friendly administration, and cyclists in the city could sway elections. In 1897, cyclist Carter Henry Harrison IV was elected mayor and supported bicycle-friendly policies. Harrison ordered the removal of a tram-track from Jackson Street and created a cycle path from Edgewater to Evanston. Cyclists in Chicago had control over the city's roads and were able to enjoy the 40 miles of boulevards. There were many prominent individuals who were keen cyclists and had political influence. Some of these individuals later transferred their loyalty to motoring, such as Prime Minister A. J. Balfour and Hugh Oakeley Arnold-Forster, Secretary of State for War. The media also played a role in the influence of cycling. William Thomas Stead, a dominant newspaperman in the late 19th century, was a keen cyclist and founder of the Mowbray House Cycling Association. This association was a cycling club for society ladies that used bicycles for campaigning purposes. Stead also used his newspaper to promote cycling and interviewed famous figures about cycling. In Britain, cycling did not have the same level of influence in politics as it did in America. However, there were some cycling MPs and media moguls who were keen cyclists and had an interest in improving roads. The National Cyclists' Union (NCU) was formed in Britain in 1878 and had members who were politically active, but there was no equivalent of the League of American Wheelmen's voting power in Britain. The L.A.W. exerted its influence on politics by capturing the Office of Road Inquiry (ORI), a bureau within the federal government that was created in 1893. Many L.A.W. officials became consultants and advisors to the ORI, and the ORI relied on the L.A.W. for funding, expertise, and lobbying efforts. The ORI eventually became the Federal Highway Administration, and the contribution of cyclists to its early years was largely forgotten. However, their influence played a critical role in American highway history.

Words: 491