---
layout: page
title: ch01
date: 2023-10-27 16:36:59
---
Federal government contracting is a process in which the U.S. government enters into contracts with American citizens to acquire the supplies and services necessary to run its operations or fulfill its mission requirements. The government spends billions of dollars each year buying from nonfederal sources, or commercial contractors. There are currently over 350,000 government contractors receiving more than $500 billion worth of contracts each year, $100 billion of which goes to small businesses. The government purchases a wide range of products and services including high-technology items like aircraft and telecommunication systems to more mundane items like office furniture and janitorial services.

The government uses a specific process designed to give business concerns the maximum practical opportunity to participate in federal contracting. It initiates or modifies over 9 million contracts each year, two-thirds of which it grants to contractors outside the Washington D.C. area. To be successful as a government contractor, one must understand the rules and regulations that govern federal contracting. The government offers a variety of programs and services to help small businesses participate in federal contracting including credit assistance, procurement opportunities, technical support, management assistance, and grants.

Federal contracting is a reliable source of income because the government purchases practically every type of supply and service. The government has more than 2,500 buying offices throughout the United States and offers financial assistance in the form of guaranteed loans and progress payments. The government also has preference programs to encourage small business participation. Government contracts tend to be larger than commercial orders and average values of $10 million to $100 million are not uncommon.

However, there are disadvantages to working with the federal government as well. Government red tape can produce a lot of paperwork and contractors must fill out numerous forms. It takes about 18 months to strike your first deal in the federal marketplace and once you sign a contract, you are generally locked into performing according to the terms of that contract. Government contracting can also be very competitive and unique, with certain common practices in commercial business, such as entertaining personnel, being illegal in government contracting.

Overall, federal government contracting is a complex process that requires knowledge of the rules and regulations and a commitment to working with the government. It can be a lucrative business opportunity for small businesses and offers a reliable source of income. However, it also requires patience and persistence to navigate the procurement process and meet government requirements.

Words: 408